Call for Chapter Proposals - New Volume to Commemorate ATLA’s 75th Anniversary

 

The Editorial Board of the ATLA Press Open Monographs Program is seeking proposals for chapters in a volume 
to commemorate the 75th anniversary of ATLA. Chapters in this volume will consider the questions: What do 
theological librarians need to be ready for as we move forward in the 21st century? What is happening at 
the intersection of these two trajectories: the changing nature of theological education and the changing 
nature of theological librarianship? The Editorial Board is looking for proposals that respond to these 
questions, particularly in relation to the history of the ATLA.

 

A few suggested topics are listed below:

 

Transformative nature of electronic resources
The impact of distance learning on theological librarianship
Keeping up with research and scholarship in religion and theology
Integrating and using emerging technologies, including new ILS models
Collection development in a changing landscape
Financial and other considerations for the future (e.g., facilities, personnel, etc.)
Impact of open access
Information literacy and library pedagogy in relation to changes to theological education
Library assessment
Changes to librarianship as a profession and impacts on theological librarianship
The shifting demography of librarians (e.g., sexual identity, religious affiliation, culture and ethnicity, etc.)
The evolution of ATLA’s relationship with the international theological librarianship community
 

Proposals on other topics are welcome.

 

Proposals must include a 250-word abstract describing the topic and a working title for the chapter.  Proposals 
should be emailed to openbooks@myatla.org by Monday, April 1, 2019.  

 

The Editorial Board will notify selected authors by June 2019. Once chapters are confirmed, the complete manuscripts 
should be submitted by December 1, 2019. Chapters should run approximately 5000 to 8000 words and conform to the 
ATLA Press Author Guidelines (see Step Three, https://books.atla.com/atlapress/guidelines). Anticipated publication 
date is early 2021.
